---
categories: patents, ip
date: 2012/09/22 12:53:00
title: Patent, what is it good for?
draft: true
---
My take on patents is what you might call "evolving". You might also call it "random" or "wishy-washy", but that would be mean. I want to write this post so later I can refer to what I thought in the past to see if my viewpoint is at least converging on something. Also writing helps me sort out my thoughts.

##What's the goal of the patent system?
The way our patent system is setup has a number of effects on our economy and society. Some are desirable, some not. Some might be called "side effects", but to paraphrase [Kas Thomas](http://asserttrue.blogspot.com/2013/03/how-common-are-sexual-side-effects.html), nothing produces "side effects", they're all just "effects". So to treat all effects of our current system equally, I'll just list what I can think of below:

* The owner of a patent controls anyone else's ability to sell or operate using that invention
* Patents go to the first person to file one, not to the first person to invent the invention
* Independently coming up with an idea, if it is the same as a registered patent, doesn't let you use that idea (it's owned by the patent)
* Patents can be invalidated by proving that the idea was public knowledge before the patent was registered (prior art)
* Patent litigation is very very expensive
* Many companies amass patents 


Goals of our system:

* Encourage people to devote time to invent things they wouldn't have otherwise
* Encourage people to disclose their inventions to the public
* Give inventors a just reward for their hard work (alternately, give inventors a chance to earn back the money spent on invention)

These reasons blend together at the seams, but I'll try to treat them separately.

* Your account, *ChickenPorkFriedSteak* was one of the accounts leaked. Everyone now knows you use *ilovefood* as your password
* Some jerks try to log into your *chickenporkfriedsteak@gmail.com* account with *ilovefood*, but **YOU ARE PROTECTED** because you used a different password for GMail


